The X-Files:
The X-Files is an American science fiction drama television series created by Chris Carter.
The original television series aired from September 10, 1993 to May 19, 2002 on Fox.
The program spanned nine seasons, with 202 episodes.
A short tenth season consisting of six episodes premiered on January 24, 2016, and concluded on February 22, 2016.
Following the ratings success of this revival, Fox announced in April 2017 that "The X-Files" would be returning for an eleventh season of ten episodes.
The season premiered on January 3, 2018, concluding on March 21, 2018.
In addition to the television series, two feature films have been released: The 1998 film "The X-Files", which took place as part of the TV series continuity, and the stand-alone film "", released in 2008, six years after the original television run had ended.
The series revolves around Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) special agents Fox Mulder (David Duchovny), and Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) who investigate X-Files: marginalized, unsolved cases involving paranormal phenomena.
Mulder believes in the existence of aliens and the paranormal while Scully, a medical doctor and a skeptic, is assigned to scientifically analyze Mulder's discoveries, offer alternate rational theories to his work, and thus return him to mainstream cases.
Early in the series, both agents become pawns in a larger conflict and come to trust only each other and a few select people.
The agents also discover an agenda of the government to keep the existence of extraterrestrial life a secret.
They develop a close relationship which begins as a platonic friendship, but becomes a romance by the end of the series.
In addition to the series-spanning story arc, "monster of the week" episodes form roughly two-thirds of all episodes.
"The X-Files" was inspired by earlier television series which featured elements of suspense and speculative fiction, including "The Twilight Zone", "Night Gallery", "Tales from the Darkside", "Twin Peaks", and especially "".
When creating the main characters, Carter sought to reverse gender stereotypes by making Mulder a believer and Scully a skeptic.
The first seven seasons featured Duchovny and Anderson equally.
In the eighth and ninth seasons, Anderson took precedence while Duchovny appeared intermittently.
New main characters were introduced: FBI agents John Doggett (Robert Patrick) and Monica Reyes (Annabeth Gish).
Mulder and Scully's boss, Assistant Director Walter Skinner (Mitch Pileggi), also became a main character.
The first five seasons of "The X-Files" were filmed and produced in Vancouver, British Columbia, before eventually moving to Los Angeles to accommodate Duchovny.
The series later returned to Vancouver to film "The X-Files: I Want to Believe" as well as the tenth and eleventh seasons of the series.
"The X-Files" was a hit for the Fox network and received largely positive reviews, although its long-term story arc was criticized near the conclusion.
Initially considered a cult series, it turned into a pop culture touchstone that tapped into public mistrust of governments and large institutions and embraced conspiracy theories and spirituality.
Both the series itself and lead actors Duchovny and Anderson received multiple awards and nominations, and by its conclusion the show was the longest-running science fiction series in U.S. television history.
The series also spawned a franchise which includes "Millennium" and "The Lone Gunmen" spin-offs, two theatrical films and accompanying merchandise.
Premise.
General.
"The X-Files" follows the careers and personal lives of FBI Special Agents Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) and Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson).
Mulder is a talented profiler and strong believer in the supernatural.
He is also adamant about the existence of intelligent extraterrestrial life and its presence on Earth.
This set of beliefs earns him the nickname "Spooky Mulder" and an assignment to a little-known department that deals with unsolved cases, known as the X-Files.
His belief in the paranormal springs from the claimed abduction of his sister Samantha Mulder by extraterrestrials when Mulder was 12.
Her abduction drives Mulder throughout most of the series.
Because of this, as well as more nebulous desires for vindication and the revelation of truths kept hidden by human authorities, Mulder struggles to maintain objectivity in his investigations.
Agent Scully is a foil for Mulder in this regard.
As a medical doctor and natural skeptic, Scully approaches cases with complete detachment even when Mulder, despite his considerable training, loses his objectivity.
She is partnered with Mulder initially so that she can debunk Mulder's nonconforming theories, often supplying logical, scientific explanations for the cases' apparently unexplainable phenomena.
Although she is frequently able to offer scientific alternatives to Mulder's deductions, she is rarely able to refute them completely.
Over the course of the series, she becomes increasingly dissatisfied with her own ability to approach the cases scientifically.
After Mulder's abduction at the hands of aliens in the seventh season finale "Requiem", Scully becomes a "reluctant believer" who manages to explain the paranormal with science.
Various episodes also deal with the relationship between Mulder and Scully, originally platonic, but that later develops romantically.
Mulder and Scully are joined by John Doggett (Robert Patrick) and Monica Reyes (Annabeth Gish) late in the series, after Mulder is abducted.
Doggett replaces him as Scully's partner and helps her search for him, later involving Reyes, of whom Doggett had professional knowledge.
The initial run of "The X-Files" ends when Mulder is secretly subjected to a military tribunal for breaking into a top secret military facility and viewing plans for alien invasion and colonization of Earth.
He is found guilty, but he escapes punishment with the help of the other agents and he and Scully become fugitives.
Mythology.
As the show progressed, key episodes, called parts of the "Mytharc", were recognized as the "mythology" of the series canon; these episodes carried the extraterrestrial/conspiracy storyline that evolved throughout the series.
"Monster of the week"—often abbreviated as "MOTW" or "MoW"—came to denote the remainder of "The X-Files" episodes.
These episodes, comprising the majority of the series, dealt with paranormal phenomena, including: cryptids, mutants, science fiction technology, horror monsters, and religious phenomena.
